---
layout: post
title: Liquid Template Language
categories: jekyll
tags: liquid模板语言
---

* content
{:toc}

Liquid模板语言的学习




> Because of the liquid language limit, replace the function tags '()' to '()'. Remember to replace sign in real code.

**Liquid tags** are the programming logic that tells templates what to do.

```Liquid
(% for post in posts %)
  (( content of for ))
(% endfor %)
```

### Control flow tags

**Control flow tags** determine which block of code should be executed based on different conditions.

- if
- elsif/ else
- case/ when
- unless Similar to if, but executes a block of code only if a certain condition is not met.

### Iteration Tags

**Iteration Tags** are used to run a block of code repeatedly.

- for Repeatedly executes a block of code.

for loop has two control tags.

- break Causes the loop to stop iterating when it encounters the break tag.
- continue Causes the loop to skip the current iteration when it encounters the continue tag.

for loop has some parameters.

- limit Exits the for loop at a specific index.
- offset Starts the for loop at a specific index.
- range Defines a range of numbers to loop through. The range can be defined by both literal and variable numbers.

```
Input:
(% assign num = 4 %)
(% for i in (1..num) %)
  (( i ))
(% endfor %)

(% for i in (3..5) %)
  (( i ))
(% endfor %)
```

```
Output:
1 2 3 4
3 4 5
```
- reversed Reverses the order of the for loop.

```
Input:
<!-- if array = [1,2,3,4,5,6] -->
(% for item in array reversed %)
    (( item ))
(% endfor %)
```

```
Output:
6 5 4 3 2 1
```

- cycle Loops through a group of strings and outputs them in the order that they were passed as parameters. Each time cycle is called, the next string that was passed as a parameter is output. cycle must be used within a for loop block.

```
Input:
(% cycle 'one', 'two', 'three' %)
(% cycle 'one', 'two', 'three' %)
(% cycle 'one', 'two', 'three' %)
(% cycle 'one', 'two', 'three' %)
```

```
Output:
one
two
three
one
```
- tablerow Generates an HTML <table>. Must be wrapped in an opening <table> and closing </table> HTML tags.

#### Theme Tags

Theme Tags have various functions, including:

- Outputting template-specific HTML markup
- Telling the theme which layout and snippets to use
- Splitting a returned array into multiple pages.

- **comment** Allows you to leave un-rendered code inside a Liquid template. Any text within the opening and closing comment blocks will not be output, and any Liquid code within will not be executed.

```
Input:
My name is (% comment %)super(% endcomment %) Shopify.
Output:
My name is Shopify.
```

- **include** Inserts a snippet from the snippets folder of a theme.
